website/pages/docs/job-specification/gateway.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: gateway Stanza - Job Specification
sidebar_title: gateway
description: |-
  The "gateway" stanza allows specifying options for configuring Consul Gateways
  used in the Consul Connect integration
---

# `gateway` Stanza

<Placement groups={['job', 'group', 'service', 'connect', 'gateway']} />

The `gateway` stanza allows configuration of [Consul Connect Gateways](https://www.consul.io/docs/connect/gateways). Nomad will
automatically create the necessary Gateway [Configuration Entry](https://www.consul.io/docs/agent/config-entries)
as well as inject an Envoy proxy task into the Nomad job to serve as the Gateway.

The `gateway` configuration is valid within the context of a `connect` stanza.
Additional information about Gateway configurations can be found in Consul's
[Connect Gateways](https://www.consul.io/docs/connect/gateways) documentation.

~> **Note:** [Ingress Gateways](https://www.consul.io/docs/connect/gateways/ingress-gateway)
are generally intended for enabling access into a Consul service mesh from within the
same network. For public ingress products like [NGINX](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/nomad/load-balancing-nginx?in=nomad/load-balancing)
provide more suitable features.

```hcl
job "ingress-example" {

  datacenters = ["dc1"]

  group "ingress-group" {

    network {
      mode = "bridge"

      port "inbound" {
        static = 8080
      }
    }

    service {
      name = "ingress-service"
      port = "8080"

      connect {
        gateway {
          proxy {
            // Consul Gateway Proxy configuration options
            connect_timeout = "500ms"
          }

          ingress {
            // Consul Ingress Gateway Configuration Entry

            tls {
              enabled = false
            }

            listener {
              port     = 8080
              protocol = "http"
              service {
                name  = "web"
                hosts = ["example.com", "example.com:8080"]
              }
            }

            listener {
              port = 3306
              protocol = "tcp"
              service {
                name = "database"
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## `gateway` Parameters

- `proxy` <code>([proxy]: nil)</code> - Configuration of the Envoy proxy that will
  be injected into the task group.
- `ingress` <code>([ingress]: nil)</code> - Configuration Entry of type `ingress-gateway`
  that will be associated with the service.

### `proxy` Parameters

- `connect_timeout` `(string: "5s")` - The amount of time to allow when making upstream
  connections before timing out. Defaults to 5 seconds. If the upstream service has
  the configuration option <code>[connect_timeout_ms]</code> set for the `service-resolver`, that
  timeout value will take precedence over this gateway proxy option.
- `envoy_gateway_bind_tagged_addresses` `(bool: false)` - Indicates that the gateway
  services tagged addresses should be bound to listeners in addition to the default
  listener address.
- `envoy_gateway_bind_addresses` <code>(map<string|[address]>: nil)</code> - A map of additional addresses to be bound.
  The keys to this map are the same of the listeners to be created and the values are
  a map with two keys - address and port, that combined make the address to bind the
  listener to. These are bound in addition to the default address.
  If `bridge` networking is in use, this map is automatically populated with additional
  listeners enabling the Envoy proxy to work from inside the network namespace.

```
envoy_gateway_bind_addresses "<service>" {
  address = "0.0.0.0"
  port    = <port>
}
```

- `envoy_gateway_no_default_bind` `(bool: false)` - Prevents binding to the default
  address of the gateway service. This should be used with one of the other options
  to configure the gateway's bind addresses. If `bridge` networking is in use, this
  value will default to `true` since the Envoy proxy does not need to bind to the
  service address from inside the network namespace.
- `config` `(map: nil)` - Escape hatch for [Advanced Configuration] of Envoy.

#### `address` Parameters

- `address` `(string: required)` - The address to bind to when combined with `port`.
- `port` `(int: required)` - The port to listen to.

### `ingress` Parameters

- `tls` <code>([tls]: nil)</code> - TLS configuration for this gateway.
- `listener` <code>(array<[listener]> : required)</code> - One or more listeners that the
  ingress gateway should setup, uniquely identified by their port number.

#### `tls` Parameters

- `enabled` `(bool: false)` - Set this configuration to enable TLS for every listener
  on the gateway. If TLS is enabled, then each host defined in the `host` field will
  be added as a DNSSAN to the gateway's x509 certificate.

#### `listener` Parameters

- `port` `(int: required)` - The port that the listener should receive traffic on.
- `protocol` `(string: "tcp")` - The protocol associated with the listener. Either
  `tcp` or `http`.

  ~> **Note:** If using `http`, preconfiguring a [service-default] in Consul to
  set the [Protocol](https://www.consul.io/docs/agent/config-entries/service-defaults#protocol)
  of the service to `http` is recommended.

- `service` <code>(array<[service]>: required)</code> - One or more services to be
  exposed via this listener. For `tcp` listeners, only a single service is allowed.

#### `service` Parameters

- `name` `(string: required)` - The name of the service that should be exposed through
  this listener. This can be either a service registered in the catalog, or a
  service defined by other config entries, or a service that is going to be configured
  by Nomad. If the wildcard specifier `*` is provided, then ALL services will be
  exposed through this listener. This is not supported for a listener with protocol `tcp`.
- `hosts` `(array<string>: nil)` - A list of hosts that specify what requests will
  match this service. This cannot be used with a `tcp` listener, and cannot be
  specified alongside a wildcard (`*`) service name. If not specified, the default
  domain `<service-name>.ingress.*` will be used to match services. Requests _must_
  send the correct host to be routed to the defined service.

  The wildcard specifier `*` can be used by itself to match all traffic coming to
  the ingress gateway, if TLS is not enabled. This allows a user to route all traffic
  to a single service without specifying a host, allowing simpler tests and demos.
  Otherwise, the wildcard specifier can be used as part of the host to match
  multiple hosts, but only in the leftmost DNS label. This ensures that all defined
  hosts are valid DNS records. For example, `*.example.com` is valid while `example.*`
  and `*-suffix.example.com` are not.

  ~> **Note:** If a well-known port is not used, i.e. a port other than 80 (http) or 443 (https),
  then the port must be appended to the host to correctly match traffic. This is
  defined in the [HTTP/1.1 RFC](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616#section-14.23).
  If TLS is enabled, then the host **without** the port must be added to the `hosts`
  field as well. TLS verification only matches against the hostname of the incoming
  connection, and does not take into account the port.

### Gateway with host networking

Nomad supports running gateways using host networking. A static port must be allocated
for use by the [Envoy admin interface](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/operations/admin)
and assigned to the proxy service definition.

!> **Warning:** There is no way to disable the Envoy admin interface, which will be
accessible to any workload running on the same Nomad client. The admin interface exposes
information about the proxy, including a Consul Service Identity token if Consul ACLs
are enabled.

### Specify Envoy image

The Docker image used for Connect gateway tasks defaults to the official [Envoy
Docker] image, `envoyproxy/envoy:v${NOMAD_envoy_version}`, where `${NOMAD_envoy_version}`
is resolved automatically by a query to Consul. The image to use can be configured
by setting `meta.connect.gateway_image` in the Nomad job. Custom images can still
make use of the envoy version interpolation, e.g.

```hcl
meta.connect.gateway_image = custom/envoy-${NOMAD_envoy_version}:latest
```

[proxy]: /docs/job-specification/gateway#proxy-parameters
[ingress]: /docs/job-specification/gateway#ingress-parameters
[tls]: /docs/job-specification/gateway#tls-parameters
[listener]: /docs/job-specification/gateway#listener-parameters
[service]: /docs/job-specification/gateway#service-parameters
[service-default]: https://www.consul.io/docs/agent/config-entries/service-defaults
[connect_timeout_ms]: https://www.consul.io/docs/agent/config-entries/service-resolver#connecttimeout
[address]: /docs/job-specification/gateway#address-parameters
[Advanced Configuration]: https://www.consul.io/docs/connect/proxies/envoy#advanced-configuration
[Envoy Docker]: https://hub.docker.com/r/envoyproxy/envoy/tags

Commit message:

consul/connect: enable configuring custom gateway task
Add the ability to configure the Task used for Connect gateways,
similar to how sidecar Task can be configured.

The implementation here simply re-uses the sidecar_task stanza,
and now gets applied whether connect.sidecar_service or
connect.gateway is the thing being defined. In retrospect,
connect.sidecar_task could have been more generically named
like connect.task to make it a little more re-usable.

Closes #9474

website/pages/docs/job-specification/gateway.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: gateway Stanza - Job Specification
sidebar_title: gateway
description: |-
  The "gateway" stanza allows specifying options for configuring Consul Gateways
  used in the Consul Connect integration
---

# `gateway` Stanza

<Placement groups={['job', 'group', 'service', 'connect', 'gateway']} />

The `gateway` stanza allows configuration of [Consul Connect Gateways](https://www.consul.io/docs/connect/gateways). Nomad will
automatically create the necessary Gateway [Configuration Entry](https://www.consul.io/docs/agent/config-entries)
as well as inject an Envoy proxy task into the Nomad job to serve as the Gateway.

The `gateway` configuration is valid within the context of a `connect` stanza.
Additional information about Gateway configurations can be found in Consul's
[Connect Gateways](https://www.consul.io/docs/connect/gateways) documentation.

~> **Note:** [Ingress Gateways](https://www.consul.io/docs/connect/gateways/ingress-gateway)
are generally intended for enabling access into a Consul service mesh from within the
same network. For public ingress products like [NGINX](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/nomad/load-balancing-nginx?in=nomad/load-balancing)
provide more suitable features.

```hcl
job "ingress-example" {

  datacenters = ["dc1"]

  group "ingress-group" {

    network {
      mode = "bridge"

      port "inbound" {
        static = 8080
      }
    }

    service {
      name = "ingress-service"
      port = "8080"

      connect {
        gateway {
          proxy {
            // Consul Gateway Proxy configuration options
            connect_timeout = "500ms"
          }

          ingress {
            // Consul Ingress Gateway Configuration Entry

            tls {
              enabled = false
            }

            listener {
              port     = 8080
              protocol = "http"
              service {
                name  = "web"
                hosts = ["example.com", "example.com:8080"]
              }
            }

            listener {
              port = 3306
              protocol = "tcp"
              service {
                name = "database"
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## `gateway` Parameters

- `proxy` <code>([proxy]: nil)</code> - Configuration of the Envoy proxy that will
  be injected into the task group.
- `ingress` <code>([ingress]: nil)</code> - Configuration Entry of type `ingress-gateway`
  that will be associated with the service.

### `proxy` Parameters

- `connect_timeout` `(string: "5s")` - The amount of time to allow when making upstream
  connections before timing out. Defaults to 5 seconds. If the upstream service has
  the configuration option <code>[connect_timeout_ms]</code> set for the `service-resolver`, that
  timeout value will take precedence over this gateway proxy option.
- `envoy_gateway_bind_tagged_addresses` `(bool: false)` - Indicates that the gateway
  services tagged addresses should be bound to listeners in addition to the default
  listener address.
- `envoy_gateway_bind_addresses` <code>(map<string|[address]>: nil)</code> - A map of additional addresses to be bound.
  The keys to this map are the same of the listeners to be created and the values are
  a map with two keys - address and port, that combined make the address to bind the
  listener to. These are bound in addition to the default address.
  If `bridge` networking is in use, this map is automatically populated with additional
  listeners enabling the Envoy proxy to work from inside the network namespace.

```
envoy_gateway_bind_addresses "<service>" {
  address = "0.0.0.0"
  port    = <port>
}
```

- `envoy_gateway_no_default_bind` `(bool: false)` - Prevents binding to the default
  address of the gateway service. This should be used with one of the other options
  to configure the gateway's bind addresses. If `bridge` networking is in use, this
  value will default to `true` since the Envoy proxy does not need to bind to the
  service address from inside the network namespace.
- `config` `(map: nil)` - Escape hatch for [Advanced Configuration] of Envoy.

#### `address` Parameters

- `address` `(string: required)` - The address to bind to when combined with `port`.
- `port` `(int: required)` - The port to listen to.

### `ingress` Parameters

- `tls` <code>([tls]: nil)</code> - TLS configuration for this gateway.
- `listener` <code>(array<[listener]> : required)</code> - One or more listeners that the
  ingress gateway should setup, uniquely identified by their port number.

#### `tls` Parameters

- `enabled` `(bool: false)` - Set this configuration to enable TLS for every listener
  on the gateway. If TLS is enabled, then each host defined in the `host` field will
  be added as a DNSSAN to the gateway's x509 certificate.

#### `listener` Parameters

- `port` `(int: required)` - The port that the listener should receive traffic on.
- `protocol` `(string: "tcp")` - The protocol associated with the listener. Either
  `tcp` or `http`.

  ~> **Note:** If using `http`, preconfiguring a [service-default] in Consul to
  set the [Protocol](https://www.consul.io/docs/agent/config-entries/service-defaults#protocol)
  of the service to `http` is recommended.

- `service` <code>(array<[service]>: required)</code> - One or more services to be
  exposed via this listener. For `tcp` listeners, only a single service is allowed.

#### `service` Parameters

- `name` `(string: required)` - The name of the service that should be exposed through
  this listener. This can be either a service registered in the catalog, or a
  service defined by other config entries, or a service that is going to be configured
  by Nomad. If the wildcard specifier `*` is provided, then ALL services will be
  exposed through this listener. This is not supported for a listener with protocol `tcp`.
- `hosts` `(array<string>: nil)` - A list of hosts that specify what requests will
  match this service. This cannot be used with a `tcp` listener, and cannot be
  specified alongside a wildcard (`*`) service name. If not specified, the default
  domain `<service-name>.ingress.*` will be used to match services. Requests _must_
  send the correct host to be routed to the defined service.

  The wildcard specifier `*` can be used by itself to match all traffic coming to
  the ingress gateway, if TLS is not enabled. This allows a user to route all traffic
  to a single service without specifying a host, allowing simpler tests and demos.
  Otherwise, the wildcard specifier can be used as part of the host to match
  multiple hosts, but only in the leftmost DNS label. This ensures that all defined
  hosts are valid DNS records. For example, `*.example.com` is valid while `example.*`
  and `*-suffix.example.com` are not.

  ~> **Note:** If a well-known port is not used, i.e. a port other than 80 (http) or 443 (https),
  then the port must be appended to the host to correctly match traffic. This is
  defined in the [HTTP/1.1 RFC](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616#section-14.23).
  If TLS is enabled, then the host **without** the port must be added to the `hosts`
  field as well. TLS verification only matches against the hostname of the incoming
  connection, and does not take into account the port.

### Gateway with host networking

Nomad supports running gateways using host networking. A static port must be allocated
for use by the [Envoy admin interface](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/operations/admin)
and assigned to the proxy service definition.

!> **Warning:** There is no way to disable the Envoy admin interface, which will be
accessible to any workload running on the same Nomad client. The admin interface exposes
information about the proxy, including a Consul Service Identity token if Consul ACLs
are enabled.

### Specify Envoy image

The Docker image used for Connect gateway tasks defaults to the official [Envoy
Docker] image, `envoyproxy/envoy:v${NOMAD_envoy_version}`, where `${NOMAD_envoy_version}`
is resolved automatically by a query to Consul. The image to use can be configured
by setting `meta.connect.gateway_image` in the Nomad job. Custom images can still
make use of the envoy version interpolation, e.g.

```hcl
meta.connect.gateway_image = custom/envoy-${NOMAD_envoy_version}:latest
```

### Custom gateway task

The task created for the gateway can be configured manually using the
[`sidecar_task`][sidecar_task] stanza.

```
connect {
  gateway {
    # ...
  }

  sidecar_task {
    # ...
  }
}
```

[proxy]: /docs/job-specification/gateway#proxy-parameters
[ingress]: /docs/job-specification/gateway#ingress-parameters
[tls]: /docs/job-specification/gateway#tls-parameters
[listener]: /docs/job-specification/gateway#listener-parameters
[service]: /docs/job-specification/gateway#service-parameters
[service-default]: https://www.consul.io/docs/agent/config-entries/service-defaults
[sidecar_task]: /docs/job-specification/sidecar_task
[connect_timeout_ms]: https://www.consul.io/docs/agent/config-entries/service-resolver#connecttimeout
[address]: /docs/job-specification/gateway#address-parameters
[Advanced Configuration]: https://www.consul.io/docs/connect/proxies/envoy#advanced-configuration
[Envoy Docker]: https://hub.docker.com/r/envoyproxy/envoy/tags
