website/pages/docs/job-specification/sidecar_task.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: sidecar_task Stanza - Job Specification
sidebar_title: sidecar_task
description: |-
  The "sidecar_task" stanza allows specifying options for configuring
  the task of the sidecar proxies used in Consul Connect integration
---

# `sidecar_task` Stanza

<Placement groups={['job', 'group', 'service', 'connect', 'sidecar_task']} />

The `sidecar_task` stanza allows configuring various options for the proxy
sidecar managed by Nomad for [Consul
Connect](/docs/integrations/consul-connect) integration such as
resource requirements, kill timeouts and more as defined below. It is valid
only within the context of a [`connect`][connect] stanza.

```hcl
job "countdash" {
  datacenters = ["dc1"]

  group "api" {
    network {
      mode = "bridge"
    }

    service {
      name = "count-api"
      port = "9001"

      connect {
        sidecar_service = {}

        sidecar_task {
          resources {
            cpu    = 500
            memory = 1024
          }
        }
      }
    }

    task "web" {
      driver = "docker"

      config {
        image = "hashicorpnomad/counter-api:v2"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Default Envoy proxy sidecar

Nomad automatically includes a default Envoy proxy sidecar task whenever a
group service has a [`sidecar_service`][sidecar_service] stanza.

The default sidecar task is equivalent to:

```hcl
sidecar_task {
  name = "connect-proxy-<service>"

  lifecycle {
    hook    = "prestart"
    sidecar = true
  }

  driver = "docker"
  config {
    image = "${meta.connect.sidecar_image}"
    args = [
      "-c",
      "${NOMAD_SECRETS_DIR}/envoy_bootstrap.json",
      "-l",
      "${meta.connect.log_level}",
      "--concurrency",
      "${meta.connect.proxy_concurrency}",
      "--disable-hot-restart"
    ]
  }

  logs {
    max_files     = 2
    max_file_size = 2 # MB
  }

  resources {
    cpu    = 250 # MHz
    memory = 128 # MB
  }

  shutdown_delay = "5s"
}
```

The `meta.connect.sidecar_image`, `meta.connect.log_level`, and
`meta.connect.proxy_concurrency` variables are [_client_
configurable][nodemeta] variables with the following defaults:

- `sidecar_image` - `(string: "envoyproxy/envoy:v${NOMAD_envoy_version}")` - The official
   upstream Envoy Docker image, where `${NOMAD_envoy_version}` is resolved automatically
   by a query to Consul.
- `log_level` - `(string: "info")` - Envoy sidecar log level. "`debug`" is useful for
  debugging Connect related issues.
- `proxy_concurrency` - `(string: "1")` - The number of [worker threads][worker_threads] the Envoy
  sidecar will run.

Custom images can make use of Consul's preferred Envoy version by making use of
Nomad's version interpolation, e.g.

```hcl
meta.connect.sidecar_image = custom/envoy-${NOMAD_envoy_version}:latest
```

## `sidecar_task` Parameters

- `name` `(string: "connect-proxy-<service>")` - Name of the task. Defaults to
  including the name of the service it is a proxy for.

- `driver` `(string: "docker")` - Driver used for the sidecar task.

- `user` `(string: nil)` - Determines which user is used to run the task, defaults
  to the same user the Nomad client is being run as.

- `config` `(map: nil)` - Configuration provided to the driver for initialization.

- `env` `(map: nil)` - Map of environment variables used by the driver.

- `resources` <code>([Resources][resources])</code> - Resources needed by the sidecar task.

- `meta` `(map: nil)` - Arbitrary metadata associated with this task that's opaque to Nomad.

- `logs` <code>([Logs][]: nil)</code> - Specifies logging configuration for the
  `stdout` and `stderr` of the task.

- `kill_timeout` `(string: "5s")` - Time between signalling a task that will be
  killed and killing it.

- `shutdown_delay` `(string: "5s")` - Delay between deregistering the task from
  Consul and sending it a signal to shutdown.

- `kill_signal` `(string:SIGINT)` - Kill signal to use for the task, defaults to SIGINT.

## `sidecar_task` Examples

The following example configures resources for the sidecar task and other configuration.

```hcl
   sidecar_task {
     resources {
       cpu = 500
       memory = 1024
     }

     env {
       FOO = "abc"
     }

     shutdown_delay = "5s"
   }

```

[connect]: /docs/job-specification/connect 'Nomad connect Job Specification'
[job]: /docs/job-specification/job 'Nomad job Job Specification'
[group]: /docs/job-specification/group 'Nomad group Job Specification'
[task]: /docs/job-specification/task 'Nomad task Job Specification'
[interpolation]: /docs/runtime/interpolation 'Nomad interpolation'
[sidecar_service]: /docs/job-specification/sidecar_service 'Nomad sidecar service Specification'
[resources]: /docs/job-specification/resources 'Nomad resources Job Specification'
[logs]: /docs/job-specification/logs 'Nomad logs Job Specification'
[nodemeta]: /docs/configuration/client#meta
[worker_threads]: https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/operations/cli#cmdoption-concurrency

Commit message:

consul/connect: enable configuring custom gateway task
Add the ability to configure the Task used for Connect gateways,
similar to how sidecar Task can be configured.

The implementation here simply re-uses the sidecar_task stanza,
and now gets applied whether connect.sidecar_service or
connect.gateway is the thing being defined. In retrospect,
connect.sidecar_task could have been more generically named
like connect.task to make it a little more re-usable.

Closes #9474

website/pages/docs/job-specification/sidecar_task.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: sidecar_task Stanza - Job Specification
sidebar_title: sidecar_task
description: |-
  The "sidecar_task" stanza allows specifying options for configuring
  the task of the sidecar proxies used in Consul Connect integration
---

# `sidecar_task` Stanza

<Placement groups={['job', 'group', 'service', 'connect', 'sidecar_task']} />

The `sidecar_task` stanza allows configuring various options for the proxy
sidecar or connect gateway managed by Nomad for the [Consul
Connect](/docs/integrations/consul-connect) integration such as
resource requirements, kill timeouts and more as defined below. It is valid
only within the context of a [`connect`][connect] stanza.

```hcl
job "countdash" {
  datacenters = ["dc1"]

  group "api" {
    network {
      mode = "bridge"
    }

    service {
      name = "count-api"
      port = "9001"

      connect {
        sidecar_service = {}

        sidecar_task {
          resources {
            cpu    = 500
            memory = 1024
          }
        }
      }
    }

    task "web" {
      driver = "docker"

      config {
        image = "hashicorpnomad/counter-api:v2"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Default Envoy configuration

Nomad automatically launches and manages an Envoy task for use as a proxy sidecar
or connect gateway, when [`sidecar_service`][sidecar_service] or [`gateway`][gateway]
are configured.

The default envoy task is equivalent to:

```hcl
sidecar_task {
  name = "connect-proxy-<service>"
  #      "connect-gateway-<service>" when used as a gateway

  lifecycle { # absent when used as a gateway
    hook    = "prestart"
    sidecar = true
  }

  driver = "docker"

  config {
    image = "${meta.connect.sidecar_image}"
    #       "${meta.connect.gateway_image}" when used as a gateway

    args = [
      "-c",
      "${NOMAD_SECRETS_DIR}/envoy_bootstrap.json",
      "-l",
      "${meta.connect.log_level}",
      "--concurrency",
      "${meta.connect.proxy_concurrency}",
      "--disable-hot-restart"
    ]
  }

  logs {
    max_files     = 2
    max_file_size = 2 # MB
  }

  resources {
    cpu    = 250 # MHz
    memory = 128 # MB
  }

  shutdown_delay = "5s"
}
```

The `meta.connect.sidecar_image`, `meta.connect.gateway_image`, `meta.connect.log_level`,
and `meta.connect.proxy_concurrency` variables are [client configurable][nodemeta]
variables with the following defaults:

- `sidecar_image` - `(string: "envoyproxy/envoy:v${NOMAD_envoy_version}")` - The official
   upstream Envoy Docker image, where `${NOMAD_envoy_version}` is resolved automatically
   by a query to Consul.
- `gateway_image` - `(string: "envoyproxy/envoy:v${NOMAD_envoy_version}")` - The official
   upstream Envoy Docker image, where `${NOMAD_envoy_version}` is resolved automatically
   by a query to Consul.
- `log_level` - `(string: "info")` - Envoy sidecar log level. "`debug`" is useful for
  debugging Connect related issues.
- `proxy_concurrency` - `(string: "1")` - The number of [worker threads][worker_threads] the Envoy
  sidecar will run.

Custom images can make use of Consul's preferred Envoy version by making use of
Nomad's version interpolation, e.g.

```hcl
meta.connect.sidecar_image = custom/envoy-${NOMAD_envoy_version}:latest
```

## `sidecar_task` Parameters

- `name` `(string: "connect-[proxy|gateway]-<service>")` - Name of the task. Defaults to
  including the name of the service the proxy or gateway is providing.

- `driver` `(string: "docker")` - Driver used for the sidecar task.

- `user` `(string: nil)` - Determines which user is used to run the task, defaults
  to the same user the Nomad client is being run as.

- `config` `(map: nil)` - Configuration provided to the driver for initialization.

- `env` `(map: nil)` - Map of environment variables used by the driver.

- `resources` <code>([Resources][resources])</code> - Resources needed by the sidecar task.

- `meta` `(map: nil)` - Arbitrary metadata associated with this task that's opaque to Nomad.

- `logs` <code>([Logs][]: nil)</code> - Specifies logging configuration for the
  `stdout` and `stderr` of the task.

- `kill_timeout` `(string: "5s")` - Time between signalling a task that will be
  killed and killing it.

- `shutdown_delay` `(string: "5s")` - Delay between deregistering the task from
  Consul and sending it a signal to shutdown.

- `kill_signal` `(string:SIGINT)` - Kill signal to use for the task, defaults to SIGINT.

## `sidecar_task` Examples

The following example configures resources for the sidecar task and other configuration.

```hcl
   sidecar_task {
     resources {
       cpu = 500
       memory = 1024
     }

     env {
       FOO = "abc"
     }

     shutdown_delay = "5s"
   }

```

[connect]: /docs/job-specification/connect 'Nomad connect Job Specification'
[gateway]: /docs/job-specification/gateway
[group]: /docs/job-specification/group 'Nomad group Job Specification'
[interpolation]: /docs/runtime/interpolation 'Nomad interpolation'
[job]: /docs/job-specification/job 'Nomad job Job Specification'
[logs]: /docs/job-specification/logs 'Nomad logs Job Specification'
[resources]: /docs/job-specification/resources 'Nomad resources Job Specification'
[sidecar_service]: /docs/job-specification/sidecar_service 'Nomad sidecar service Specification'
[task]: /docs/job-specification/task 'Nomad task Job Specification'
[nodemeta]: /docs/configuration/client#meta
[worker_threads]: https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/operations/cli#cmdoption-concurrency
